# Project 1 tests

This directory contains tests for the scanner and parser.

## Scanner Tests

To run the scanner tests (in the `tests/scanner` directory), use the command

``` console
../../bin/soolc.sh --test-scanner test.sool
```

where `test.sool` is the name of the test file that you want to use as
input; it will produce an output file `test.toks` that lists the tokens
recognized by the scanner along with their spans.

For the tests that are correct, the expected output is in `test.result`.
We also include some tests that your scanner handles illegal input (e.g.,
`bad-string1.sool`).

## Parser Tests

To run the parser tests (in the `tests/scanner` directory), use the command

``` console
../../bin/soolc.sh test.sool
```

where `test.sool` is the name of the test file that you want to use as
input; it will produce an output file `test.pt` that prints the parse-tree
structure that your parser built.  The expected result is in `test.result`.

While the parser tests exercise many of the syntactic features of the language,
they are not a complete set of tests, so you may want to add additional tests.

## Typechecker Tests

To run the typechecker tests (in the `tests/tc` directory), use the command

``` console
../../bin/soolc.sh test.sool
```

where `test.sool` is the name of the test file that you want to use as
input; it will produce an output file `test.ast` that prints the typed AST
structure that your typechecker built.  The expected result is in `test.result`.

## Normalizer Tests

To run the typechecker tests (in the `tests/tc` directory), use the command

``` console
../../bin/soolc.sh test.sool
```

where `test.sool` is the name of the test file that you want to use as
input; it will produce an output file `test.ir` that prints the SOIR
code you generated.  The expected result is in `test.result`.

There is also an interpreter for the SOIR representation.  It uses the
front-end of the compiler (parsing, type checking, and normalization)
to produce the SOIR representation and then runs it.  To build the
interpreter, use the `sooli` target (or use `all` to build both the
compiler and the interpreter).  To run it on `test.sool`, use the
command.

``` console
../../bin/sooli.sh test.sool
```

The interpreter has several command-line options:

* `--trace` -- output an execution trace to the terminal
* `--print` *file* -- specify an output file for the program's output
* `--step-limit` *n* -- limit the execution to at most *n* steps
* `--depth-limit` *n* -- limit the call depth to at most *n* calls

## Warning

Note that we recently discovered a bug in the code generated by
the **ml-ulex** tool when `skip()` is used in an action.  Basically,
the value of `yypos` will be inaccurate.  This bug does does not
affect the span information associated with tokens, but if you
generate an error message in a scanner action using `yypos` (e.g., for
an illegal character), the position information may be incorrect.
